Designing 1kW Sine Wave Inverter Circuit :- 
We designed a simple sine wave inverter circuit that produces 50Hz quasi-sine wave output using a single IC CD4047 and some discrete components, which makes it a very cost-effective solution.It comprises a CD4047 multivibrator (IC1), MOSFET, IRF250 MOSFETs (T1 through T8), transistors, and a few discrete components.IC CD4047 has built-in facilities for astable and bistable multivibrators. The inverter application requires two outputs that are 180 degrees out of phase. Therefore IC1 is wired to produce two square-wave output signals at pins 10 and 11 with 50Hz frequency, 50% duty cycle, and 180-degree phase shift. The oscillating frequency is decided by external preset VR1 and capacitor C1.These two signals alternatively drive the two MOSFET banks (bank-1 and bank-2). When pin 10 of IC1 is high and pin 11 low, MOSFETs of bank-1 (T1 through T4) conduct, while MOSFETs of bank-2 (T5 through T8) remain in the non-conducting state. Therefore a large swing of current flows through the first half of the primary winding of inverter transformer X1 and 230V AC develops across the secondary winding.During the next half cycle, the voltage at pin 10 of IC1 goes low, while the voltage at pin 11 is high. Thus MOSFETs of bank-2 conduct, while the MOSFETs of bank-1 remain non-conducting. Therefore current flows through the other half of the primary winding and 230V AC develops across the secondary winding.This way an alternating output voltage is obtained across the secondary winding.The sine wave output is obtained by forming a tank circuit with the secondary winding of the inverter transformer in parallel with capacitors C5 through C7. Two 2.2µF capacitors are connected to the gates of the MOSFETs in both banks with respect to the ground if proper sinewave is not produced.The natural frequency of the tank circuit is adjusted to 50 Hz. Current consumption with no load is only 500 mA due to the 50% duty cycle of the square-wave signal. As the load is increased, current consumption increases.The supply voltage to IC1 is limited to 5.1 volts by using Zener ZD1 and resistor R4 with the external battery.
